films adapted from comic books have had plenty of success , whether they're about superheroes ( batman , superman , spawn ) , or geared toward kids ( casper ) or the arthouse crowd ( ghost world ) , but there's never really been a comic book like from hell before . 
for starters , it was created by alan moore ( and eddie campbell ) , who brought the medium to a whole new level in the mid '80s with a 12-part series called the watchmen . 
to say moore and campbell thoroughly researched the subject of jack the ripper would be like saying michael jackson is starting to look a little odd . 
the book ( or " graphic novel , " if you will ) is over 500 pages long and includes nearly 30 more that consist of nothing but footnotes . 
in other words , don't NOT_dismiss NOT_this NOT_film NOT_because NOT_of NOT_its NOT_source . 
if you can get past the whole comic book thing , you might find another stumbling block in from hell's directors , albert and allen hughes . 
getting the hughes brothers to direct this seems almost as ludicrous as casting carrot top in , well , anything , but riddle me this : who better to direct a film that's set in the ghetto and features really violent street crime than the mad geniuses behind menace ii society ? 
the ghetto in question is , of course , whitechapel in 1888 london's east end . 
it's a filthy , sooty place where the whores ( called " unfortunates " ) are starting to get a little nervous about this mysterious psychopath who has been carving through their profession with surgical precision . 
when the first stiff turns up , copper peter godley ( robbie coltrane , the world is not enough ) calls in inspector frederick abberline ( johnny depp , blow ) to crack the case . 
abberline , a widower , has prophetic dreams he unsuccessfully tries to quell with copious amounts of absinthe and opium . 
upon arriving in whitechapel , he befriends an unfortunate named mary kelly ( heather graham , say it isn't NOT_so ) and proceeds to investigate the horribly gruesome crimes that even the police surgeon can't NOT_stomach . 
i don't NOT_think NOT_anyone NOT_needs NOT_to NOT_be NOT_briefed NOT_on NOT_jack NOT_the NOT_ripper , so i won't NOT_go NOT_into NOT_the NOT_particulars NOT_here , other than to say moore and campbell have a unique and interesting theory about both the identity of the killer and the reasons he chooses to slay . 
in the comic , they don't NOT_bother NOT_cloaking NOT_the NOT_identity NOT_of NOT_the NOT_ripper , but screenwriters terry hayes ( vertical limit ) and rafael yglesias ( les mis ? rables ) do a good job of keeping him hidden from viewers until the very end . 
it's funny to watch the locals blindly point the finger of blame at jews and indians because , after all , an englishman could never be capable of committing such ghastly acts . 
and from hell's ending had me whistling the stonecutters song from the simpsons for days ( " who holds back the electric car/who made steve guttenberg a star ? " ) . 
don't NOT_worry - it'll all make sense when you see it . 
now onto from hell's appearance : it's certainly dark and bleak enough , and it's surprising to see how much more it looks like a tim burton film than planet of the apes did ( at times , it seems like sleepy hollow 2 ) . 
the print i saw wasn't NOT_completely NOT_finished ( both color and music had not been finalized , so no comments about marilyn manson ) , but cinematographer peter deming ( don't NOT_say NOT_a NOT_word ) ably captures the dreariness of victorian-era london and helped make the flashy killing scenes remind me of the crazy flashbacks in twin peaks , even though the violence in the film pales in comparison to that in the black-and-white comic . 
oscar winner martin childs' ( shakespeare in love ) production design turns the original prague surroundings into one creepy place . 
even the acting in from hell is solid , with the dreamy depp turning in a typically strong performance and deftly handling a british accent . 
ians holm ( joe gould's secret ) and richardson ( 102 dalmatians ) log in great supporting roles , but the big surprise here is graham . 
i cringed the first time she opened her mouth , imagining her attempt at an irish accent , but it actually wasn't NOT_half NOT_bad . 
the film , however , is all good . 
2 : 00 - r for strong violence/gore , sexuality , language and drug content 
