with a team of 200 graphic artists and animators working on this first film production from game developer squaresoft's square pictures , final fantasy , inspired by the top-selling game franchise , is visually awe-inspiring and groundbreaking . 
no doubt , you have never seen anything like this film , and the hyperbolic fanfare surrounding its release is absolutely deserved . 
but why does such a tremendous feat of eye candy have to be weighted down with a problematic story , wooden dialogue and generally uncharismatic voice acting ? 
obviously , the primary goal of the film is to stun and amaze audiences with extremely sophisticated cgi . 
everything you see in the film is rendered in great detail : individual threads in the fabric , individual strands of hair swaying , wrinkles and pimples on skin , incredible water effects . 
overall , the expressions and lip movements fairly accurately match the emotions and dialogue ; and the times when they don't NOT_sync NOT_perfectly NOT_really NOT_stand NOT_out , since the animation is usually so dazzling . 
but you won't NOT_spend NOT_much NOT_time NOT_dwelling NOT_on NOT_those NOT_gaffes NOT_-- NOT_as NOT_soon NOT_as NOT_you NOT_catch NOT_one , the next stellar monster or effect will have you muttering , " wow . . . " 
like the series of games , final fantasy's plot and characters have little to do with its predecessors , outside of being born from the same japanese mastermind , hironobu sakaguchi . 
it's the year 2065 , and humans are prisoners in caged cities of their own making that guard them from an outside world now overrun with deadly alien " phantoms . " 
whenever a human comes in contact with the ghostly visitors , the often-invisible beings pass through the body and wrench out its soul ( for some unexplainable reason ) . 
while many humans agree with a plan by monomaniacal general hein ( james woods ) to blast the aliens with a " zeus cannon , " dr . aki ross ( ming-na ) and dr . sid ( donald sutherland ) plan to build a " wave " using eight collected " spirits " to counteract the phantoms and kill them off . 
while the images serve the sci-fi aspect of the film well , the storytelling doesn't . 
it's unfortunate , because the plot seems so intricately thought out . 
perhaps it was far too complex and enormous to be entirely incorporated into the script . 
some could blame this weakness on the fact that it was a japanese concept translated to english , except two americans wrote the screenplay . 
nevertheless , the end result is an elaborate story complicated by confusing holes . 
why do these aliens feed on souls ? 
if they can pass through bodies and ships , how can humans hurt them with guns ? 
what is so special about the " spirits " that they would create a force strong enough to destroy the aliens ? 
worse yet , the dialogue is scripted to be either like a science-heavy star trek episode , an installment of die hard , or a sappy love story , depending on who's doing the talking . 
for the most part , it's bearable considering the genre , but tedious speeches and cheesy lines don't NOT_do NOT_anything NOT_to NOT_help NOT_the NOT_actors NOT_and NOT_can NOT_get NOT_annoying NOT_in NOT_the NOT_longer NOT_scenes . 
the only exception is steve buscemi as pilot neil fleming , who always has great cracks during tense moments . 
but , when the lights come up and the credits roll , you're more likely to be remarking on how fantastic the film looked . 
there's no question that the roughly 33 million people who have bought at least one final fantasy game will be eager to see this movie , and so should anyone who enjoys being floored by the best cg animation ever put to film . 
you'd be living in a fantasy world of your own if you expected much more . 
