any movie about the underground music scene is a difficult beast to master . 
any meaning found in the underground is usually lost by the dumbing-down of the experience to make it " more accessible " to the general public . 
or the film is produced and directed by people that have about enough understanding of the subject matter that they ought to work as production assistants for vh1 . 
human traffic , a new film exploring the british underground party/rave scene and the people immersed in the world of clubbing , pubbing , drugs , sex , and the beautiful , beautiful music , is an example of how it really ought to be done . 
the film follows five brits in their young twenties during a wild weekend of parties , drugs , dancing , sex , pop culture discussions , relationships , and wanking off in front of a mirror while mum interrupts . 
the cast of character consists of jip ( john simm ) , our narrator , who has a bit of a problem with his willy , known as mr . floppy . 
koop ( shaun parkes ) , our black dj maestro , who has insecurity issues , afraid his girlfriend nina ( nicola reynolds ) is shagging other men . 
nina herself can't NOT_stand NOT_her NOT_mcjob NOT_and NOT_longs NOT_for NOT_the NOT_freedom NOT_of NOT_the NOT_weekends . 
lulu ( lorraine pilkington ) , jip's best mate , is tired of her cheating boyfriends . 
and moff ( danny dyer ) can't NOT_seem NOT_to NOT_escape NOT_the NOT_black NOT_hole NOT_of NOT_his NOT_awful NOT_life . 
the film follows these five individuals during one weekend as each of them discovers love , friendship , and self-fulfillment , all against the raging party background . 
human traffic is proof that cinema can still tell us deep stories while being visually alive , as director justin kerrigan's subtle use of the camera lets the audience become part of the action . 
the use of direct communication to the audience by the collection of characters works well , making the viewer the subconscious mind for the characters . 
dialogue is crisp and moves with an even pace , and the acting is confident . 
however , the two females leads tend to promote their relationships and dialogue with a bit of unneeded urgency that shows through when poignancy is needed . 
human traffic does not try to explain the rave scene . 
instead , it gives the audience the ability to listen to the people inside it , letting you choose your own convictions about this powerful musical movement that brings together strangers , friends , and lovers for one blissful night of music and peace . 
